these are the heart of your system hi
and welcome back to a new video I
recently visited my parents in the South
area of Germany where originally from
and where I still store a lot of my old
hardware stuff I've been using for I
don't know like 15 years or even longer
I go and I was going through some my
very very old stuff and I found this one
it's a CPU cooling union from Swift tech
it's called the MC X 4,000 T and this is
a Peltier or Tec cooler from the year
2001 and it has been sitting in its box
for many many years and I've never used
this before and when I was just going
through my collection I thought maybe
it's finally time to try this thing and
see how this could perform on a recent
rise in 3000 CPU obviously back then in
2001 rise in the 3000 or socket am for
was not available this one was made for
the first Pentium 4 completely different
socket which will make it a little bit
more complex we will have to make our
own mounting to kind of fit this cooling
unit on to the socket am for but that's
what we're going to try in today's video
switch tech was really really successful
with CPU cooling blocks in the late 90s
they had the MC 370 cooling unit which
was a very simple cooling unit it was a
solid aluminum base plate and then they
basically had aluminum rods punched into
the aluminum base plate therefore
creating a lot of surface area and
typically using a 60 millimeter fan on
top back then Sabu's didn't really have
that high power consumption therefore
this would really work out well then one
or two years later they had the MC 1000
and MC 2000 cooling units which were for
slot 1 again Pentium 3 area but this
time for slot slot 1 where the CPUs were
soldered on this slot card it's
basically a PCB and therefore the CPU
was plugged into the mainboard
on a PCB and then they attached the
cooling units to it the MC 1000 was
featuring a single Tek and using 2 60
millimeter fans and then there was a
bigger version there was the MC 2000
which was using quad 60 millimeter fans
and
two texts in total and I think there's
still a review of that unit online on a
non tech and I think they managed to
overclock some pens of three CPUs and
with idle temperatures of about minus
three minus 40 degree Celsius which
really was a lot back then and it really
sounds some fun especially considering
that this was like 20 years ago
the mcx 4000 T is not that much
different when it comes to the cooler
design we still have this massive copper
plate on the bottom the assignment they
were using copper instead of aluminium
but they were still using some solid
aluminum rods and they basically look
like threaded rods they plucked or
threaded into this base plate for
increasing the surface area and
dissipating the heat they increased the
fan size I think this was one of the
first CPU cooling blocks that were using
or supporting 92 millimeter fans that
was also a version of the mcx 4000
without teeth that he was for the tech
that's built inside the base plate but
the version without he was not using a
tech cooling unit and was a simple CPU
cooler talking about the mcx 4000 T I'm
not really sure what type of tech they
built in what power capability of this
tech is but design rice is a quite
interesting cooling unit as I said
before we have this massive copper base
and then we have a tech built-in and
another piece of copper right here
everything is surrounded by some form
for insulation which is really cool that
it's built in insulation and back then
this was designed for the first Pentium
4 which was socket 478 and for 78 was
also a PGA socket similar to what we
have on a m4 so a pin grid array and
they have this foam stencil right here
which really looks like it would also
fit on a m4 PGA circuit and I think
that's what we're going to try if we can
somehow fit this cooler onto this
motherboard because as I said before
socket four seven eight I will have to
think of how I can adjust dismounting
from four seven eight two am for measure
this cooling unit and then we will be
back both a m4 and socket 478
kind of have this rectangular shape
for mounting mechanism but this one has
a little bit smaller dimensions if we
just fit this cooler on here you can see
you put you can't put it on but there's
a difference right here between the
mounting of the cooler and the mounting
of the m4 which means that I can
basically just make a very simple
adapter that can be attached to this
block right here basically has this kind
of shape and then be attached to a m4 I
will quickly create that in CID this is
how my quick design looks like the inner
holes are for a connection to the cooler
those ones right here
top and bottom and the outer ones are
for the a m4 connection it's a very very
simple 2d shape which we can laser-cut
at caseking using the co2 laser and just
make it out of 10 millimeter acrylic
should be able to do that within the
next hour and then we'll be back our
mounting adapters should almost be ready
to go the only thing I have to do right
now is increasing the hole diameter with
a drill to four point five millimeters
so we can use m4 screws the reason for
that is that a co2 laser or any kind of
laser in general will not create
90-degree angles because you have this
type of shape from your laser beam
therefore if you laser your hole one
side always has a bigger diameter than
the other side that's normal there's
nothing you can do about that but if you
want to have accurate holes always just
make them a little bit smaller increase
them with a drill much better especially
if you want to cut threads in them for
this purpose it's not that much of a
problem or not that important but for
especially cutting threads should always
mechanically work on them afterwards
adapters are ready to go the only thing
we will have to change right now is the
screws inside a cooler because those are
not metric screws and the only thing I
have are metric nuts therefore we will
have to replace those screws it could be
that we will have to change the diameter
of the holes inside the copper baseplate
maybe we have to increase it to make
sure the m4 screws fit through there but
otherwise I think this should work quite
nicely because we can already put it on
here right here and then with some other
m4 screws make the connection to the
motherboard with the simple screwdriver
a little bit of gentle force can remove
the stock mounting and hopefully also
reuse the springs for our new mounting
kit I just also noticed that the screws
have to sit a little bit deeper inside
the plastic right here those screws or
those holes will be for the screw heads
for the m4 mounting because if I attach
those right now I will not be able to
reach them afterwards again we're going
to use the MSI x58 he got like on the
board in this video main reason first of
all because it's very good for
overclocking has all the features we
need and it doesn't have many components
surrounding the socket which is quite
important for extreme overclocking we
have nothing that's in the way so we
should be able to fit on the following
stencil quite nicely and therefore
protect the motherboard from any curing
condensation
[Music]
[Applause]
let's see if we can use this form gasket
to insulate the motherboard in addition
we will remove the middle part and then
I'm not going to glue it on because I
think because it could happen or it
happened to me in the past if this glue
was too strong then it could remove some
of those very tiny SMDs that are still
right here we don't have too many of on
this board but there's still some left I
don't want to damage it I cut away a
tiny bit here and here and now I think
this is going to fit awesome
[Music]
[Applause]
for a backplate I also increased the
whole time I measure on here to make
sure it can still fit and spread the
mounting pressure on the whole PCB and
not just the small points where the
screws are so far so good
fan is also attached to the 92
millimeter noise blocker fan the only
thing we will still have to do is the
electrical connection of the tech to the
PSU in the instructions from the
original cooler they just said you will
probably buy your own external PSU for
this tech but they never stayed at how
much power this tech is drawing which is
kind of risky if you would attach it to
your PSU directly because back then in
like 2000 the PSU were not that strong
you didn't have like your 1200 Watts the
Sonic PSU which is something we can
easily use today that's why we can't
just connect it to power of the PSU
directly using some PCI Express cables I
have spare 4 see Sonic PSU is just
cutting off the part that goes to your
VGA usually then connecting it to the
tech and we should be ready to be ready
to go
[Music]
system is up and running so far I didn't
connect the tech module just to make
sure that we can first test the cooler
itself see if we maybe have a mounting
issue that could always be something in
the way that CPU cooler doesn't make
perfect contact to the CPU itself looks
quite nice let's check the temperature
in idle and the 3,800 X is currently
running at something between 50 and 60
degrees Celsius what I've seen so far I
think for a 3,800 X that's fairly
reasonable and I think now it's time to
connect a tech with the PSU and see how
this changes time to plug in the cable
see how it goes current clamp shows
about 14.5 to 15 amps which is about 170
watt power draw just from the tech
that's quite a lot I would be ok with it
if it was a water cooling unit like
custom water cooling loop but this tiny
air cooler I'm not so sure if this can
really handle the heat let's see where
the temperature ends up
let's quickly see how the temperature
acts if we run this image are twenty I
don't really have that much hope to be
honest temperature is not as bad as I
expected but mid to high 70s from the
temperature is not great it's certainly
not great you can see I transformed the
cooler into a higher performing rising
box cooler I'm actually not sure if it's
higher performing but it's higher power
consumption for sure I had to replace
the noise burger fan noise blocker is
well known for having very low noise but
also not the highest rpm therefore not
the highest airflow the rising boxed
cooler fan has higher rpm and therefore
should be better performance you can see
we are in the low 40s right now with the
CPU temperature with the text switched
off now we will plug it in and see how
it performs
[Music]
[Applause]
okay we'll finally be low ambient
temperature we're not yet in the region
where we could occur condensation we're
about we're at about 18 degrees Celsius
while I have about 23 to 24 sometimes
even 25 degree cells in my room mainly
because of the many electrical items
that are running right here in my room
many PCs and stuff but yeah at least
below ambient turns out our threaded rod
newly built in the Box cooler performs
pretty much the same as the previous AMD
Box cooler where we ripped off the fan
except for that this one consumes about
170 watts of power which is just too
much considering that the temperatures
were not great in idle it was fun to see
that it would drop below ambient but it
wouldn't drop below that we could really
do anything with it for really extreme
overclocking you would need at least
like minus 10 minus 20 degree Celsius to
really have a benefit of this type of
cooling to see a benefit in clocks but
with this type of cooler with this high
power consumption and high temperature
obviously and unfortunately not possible
the power consumption of the tech is
simply too high therefore the
temperature just skyrockets it would
need a lot more surface area to
dissipate the heat of the cooling system
thanks for joining in and see you next
time
[Music]
adjust